Paris is the capital of France. France is a country in Europe. France is a country. The Eiffel Tower is in Paris. The Seine is a river in France.
Rome is the capital of Italy. Italy is a country in Europe. Italy is a country. The Colosseum is in Rome. Rome is an ancient city.
Madrid is the capital of Spain. Spain is a country in Europe. Spain is a country.
Berlin is the capital of Germany. Germany is a country in Europe. The Rhine is a river in Germany.
London is the capital of England. The Thames is a river in England. Big Ben is in London.
Athens is the capital of Greece. Greece is a country in Europe. The Acropolis is in Athens. The Parthenon is in Athens. Greece is the birthplace of democracy.
Lisbon is the capital of Portugal. Portugal is a country in Europe.
Vienna is the capital of Austria. The Danube is a river in Europe.
Reykjavik is the capital of Iceland. Iceland is a country in Europe. Iceland is a country. Iceland is an island.
Oslo is the capital of Norway. Norway is a country in Europe.
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a country in Europe.
The Alps are mountains in Europe. Mont Blanc is a mountain in the Alps.

Tokyo is the capital of Japan. Japan is a country in Asia. Japan is an island nation. Mount Fuji is a mountain in Japan.
Beijing is the capital of China. China is a country in Asia. The Great Wall is in China.
New Delhi is the capital of India. India is a country in Asia. The Taj Mahal is in India. The Ganges is a river in India.
Bangkok is the capital of Thailand. Thailand is a country in Asia.
The Himalayas are mountains in Asia. Mount Everest is a mountain in the Himalayas. Mount Everest is the tallest mountain.

Cairo is the capital of Egypt. Egypt is a country in Africa. The pyramids are in Egypt. The Sphinx is in Egypt. The Nile is a river in Africa.
Nairobi is the capital of Kenya. Kenya is a country in Africa.
The Sahara is a desert in Africa.

Washington is the capital of the United States. The United States is a country in North America.
Ottawa is the capital of Canada. Canada is a country in North America.
Brasilia is the capital of Brazil. Brazil is a country in South America. The Amazon is a river in South America. The Amazon is a rainforest.
Lima is the capital of Peru. Peru is a country in South America. Machu Picchu is in Peru.
Buenos Aires is the capital of Argentina. The Andes are mountains in South America.
Canberra is the capital of Australia. Australia is a continent. The Sydney Opera House is in Australia.

Latin is the language of ancient Rome. The Roman Empire is an ancient empire. Rome is the center of the Roman Empire.
Egypt is famous for the pyramids. The pyramids are ancient monuments. Greece is famous for philosophy.

Albert Einstein was a physicist. Isaac Newton was a physicist. Galileo was an astronomer. Charles Darwin was a scientist.
William Shakespeare was a playwright. Leonardo da Vinci was an artist. Michelangelo was an artist.
Napoleon was an emperor. Cleopatra was the queen of Egypt. Julius Caesar was a Roman general.
Aristotle was a philosopher. Socrates was a philosopher. Plato was a philosopher.
Marie Curie was a scientist. Ada Lovelace was a mathematician. Alan Turing was a mathematician.
Florence Nightingale was a nurse. Christopher Wren was an architect. Charles Dickens was a writer.
